# Hate-Speech-Detection
The increasing use of social media and information sharing has given major benefits to humanity. However, this has also given rise to a variety of challenges including the spreading and sharing of hate speech messages. Thus, to solve this emerging issue in social media sites, recent studies employed a variety of feature engineering techniques and machine learning algorithms to automatically detect the hate speech messages on different datasets. 
However,  there is no study to compare the variety of feature engineering techniques and machine learning algorithms to evaluate which feature engineering technique and machine learning algorithm outperform on a standard publicly available dataset. Hence, the aim of this project is to compare the performance of three feature engineering techniques and four machine learning algorithms to evaluate their performance on a publicly available dataset having three distinct classes. 
Machine Learning classifier used: Naive Baye's,SVM,Random forests and Logostic Regression  

Results:
The experimental results exhibited that he logistic regression algorithm works consistently well with all feature sets except for F7 as precision, recall and subsequently the f1-score for “hate” label results in zero. Random Forest classifier works pretty well when it comes to Fmeasure and also shows a significant performance in all other feature sets but itsperformance is hugely impacted when tf-idf scores are not included in the feature set .
The overall performance of the Naïve Bayes classifier is found to be less significant for the purpose of classifying tweets into hate, offensive or neither labels because the NB classifier works on conditional independence among features. Thus, the performance of the NB classifier is negatively affected as the conditional dependence becomes more complicated due to the increase in the number of features. SVM classifier also seems to be consistent throughout all feature sets.
